Many South Africans went into exile to fight against apartheid so that we can all enjoy the freedom we have today. African countries extended a helping hand by accommodating and integrating us into their communities while we fought an internal force and system designed to oppress us in our own country. When I went into exile my journey started in Swaziland, with a brief stop in Mozambique, then Tanzania and Kenya. I finally settled in Zambia before returning home. I was in Kenya during the 1982 attempted coup on then president Daniel arap Moi. I remember how we had to be evacuated and relocated to Botswana. However, my longest stay was in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, where I learnt the local language, Swahili. I recall how the then SADF would invade host countries to kidnap and even kill some of us. Many of those who accommodated us paid the ultimate price and died alongside us. Through it all, there is an abiding memory which is the warmth of the people, who embraced us and even started families with us. During the third parliament, I led a delegation of MPs to Angola. We visited Qibashe, a town that housed one of our camps. We were met by young people whose fathers were former MK soldiers. They spoke isiZulu and sang South African freedom songs to us. In 2008, during a visit to Tanzania, we visited grave sites where the remains of our people are. We also met the elders of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (Julius Nyerere's political party) who asked us, with no anger in their voices, why more than a 100 Tanzanians had been killed in South Africa. It was a painful and difficult moment and the words "We are sorry" were simply not adequate. These are just some of the memories that come to life. These experiences taught me that as human beings we turn to one another in times of need. Circumstances can bring us closer, regardless of which passport you carry. As leaders, we should not turn a blind eye to the challenges and difficulties our own people face today. We need to listen to our people and jointly find lasting solutions. This in order to start the healing process. Let's never forget our history as a nation and as a continent.